Your name(s) *
Toby Hudson

How does your session tie in with the overall theme of PIDs and the open research infrastructure? *
I will present a browser extension based on detecting external identifiers in the URLs you browser and cross-matching them with items and identifiers stored in Wikidata.

Which theme inspired your session? *
PID Success Stories

Session title *
Entity Explosion - navigate the web with PIDs

Session description (please note, this will be used in the program so make it good!) *
Wikidata is great for asking weird questions like "Who is the most famous child of a librarian?" (the answer will surprise you). But what use are all the external identifiers that make up 90% of the database? I'll show you how to use them to navigate the web.
Say you're on a webpage about a particular thing ("entity"). Click on the browser extension Entity Explosion to get information about that entity (from the URL alone!), and an explosion of links to other sites about that same entity. The data provided is sourced live from Wikidata - the Rosetta Stone of the internet - and can be retrieved in any language.
We'll browse around some topics of your choice, to see how powerful you can be with a pinch of Wikidata added to your browser.

Which language(s) would your session be in? *
English

How would you run the session to support the spirit of PIDapalooza as a laid-back, welcoming, energetic and exciting, sociable and serious gathering? *
That describes me pretty well, so why not my session? We'll go explore the web together, using the browser extension to find quirky facts and amazing connections from webpages of the audience's choice.
We encourage audience participation. This can be done in many ways: Q&A, polling the audience, etc. Please describe which tactics you would use to engage the audience.
I will poll the audience for fields of interest and use the extension on examples in that field. I also have some other live query demonstrations of the power of Wikidata that can be applied to any field, so when talking to librarians, I set them a task to find out who the most famous child of a librarian is (the answer will surprise you).

Speaker bio(s) (this will also appear in the program) *
Dr Toby Hudson is a Senior Lecturer in Theoretical Materials Chemistry, and Associate Head of School (Education) in the School of Chemistry at the University of Sydney, with a D.Phil. in Materials Science at the University of Oxford modelling neutron damage in metals for fusion reactors. He has actively contributed to Wikimedia Foundation projects since 2004, and knows Wikidata inside out.

Which of the following time slots can you be available in (please check all that apply)? *
January 27, 2021 15:00 - 18:00 UTC
January 27, 2021 20:00 UTC - January 28, 00:00 UTC
January 28, 2021 01:00 - 02:00 UTC #
January 28, 2021 04:00 - 07:00 UTC #
January 28, 2021 08:00 - 11:00 UTC #
January 28, 2021 12:00 - 15:00 UTC

Please sum up your session in a tweet (280 characters or less)
Have you ever wanted more info about an item you are browsing? "Bring the power of #Wikidata with you wherever you go on the internet." @tobyhudson presents the browser extension users say is more faithful than your Golden Retriever - Entity Explosion.
Would you like to suggest a song for the PIDapalooza 2021 playlist?
